README.md, before:

# qa-training-app-tests

A test automation framework built with Cypress and Cucumber for UI and API testing. This project includes the Spring Boot application JAR and automated tests.

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js 18+** installed
- **Java 17+** installed and available on PATH
- **MySQL Server** (local or remote) with database `qa_training`

## Project Setup

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Team-Odin/qa-training-app-tests.git
cd qa-training-app-tests
```

### 2. Configure environment variables

Create your `.env` file from the example:

```bash
# Windows PowerShell
Copy-Item .env.example .env

# Mac/Linux
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` and update the values:

```env
DB_USERNAME="root"
DB_PASSWORD="YourActualPassword"
DB_URL="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/qa_training?useSSL=false&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true"
API_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8080"
```

**For remote database:**

```env
DB_USERNAME="your_db_username"
DB_PASSWORD="your_db_password"
DB_URL="jdbc:mysql://remote-host:3306/qa_training?useSSL=false&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true"
API_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8080"
```

### 3. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 4. Database setup

**For local database:**

Ensure MySQL is running and create the database if it doesn't exist:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS qa_training;
```

**For remote database:**

Ensure you have the correct host, port, username, and password. The database should already exist on the remote server.

The application will auto-create tables on first run using JPA.

## Running the Application

Start the Spring Boot application (without tests):

```bash
npm start
```

This will:

- Load database connection details (URL, username, password) from `.env`
- Connect to your configured MySQL database (local or remote)
- Start the application on port 8080
- Initialize the database schema automatically

**Access the application:**

- **UI Login**: http://localhost:8080/ui/login
- **Swagger API**: http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html
- **Health Check**: http://localhost:8080/actuator/health

To stop the application, press `Ctrl+C` in the terminal.

## Running Tests

Make sure the application is running before executing tests.

### Run all tests (headless):

```bash
npm test
```

### Open interactive test runner:

```bash
npm run open
```

### Run a specific test:

```bash
npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/healthcheck.feature
```

## Environment Variables

Th# Clean test artifacts:

```bash
npm run clean
```

## Project Structure

```
qa-training-app-tests/
├── bin/
│   └── qa-training-app.jar          # Spring Boot application
├── config/
│   └── application.properties       # Application configuration
├── cypress/
│   ├── e2e/                         # Test features and step definitions
│   ├── screenshots/                 # Test failure screenshots
│   └── support/                     # Cypress support files
├── .env                             # Environment variables (create from .env.example)
├── .env.example                     # Environment variables template
├── cypress.config.js                # Cypress configuration
├── package.json                     # NPM dependencies and scripts
├── run-app.js                       # Application launcher script
└── README.md                        # This file
```

## Available Scripts

| Command         | Description                            |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `npm start`     | Start the Spring Boot application      |
| `npm test`      | Run all Cypress tests in headless mode |
| `npm run open`  | Open Cypress interactive test runner   |
| `npm run clean` | Remove test screenshots and videos     |

## Troubleshooting

### Application won't start

- Verify Java is installed: `java --version`
- Check MySQL is running and accessible
- Verify database credentials in `.env`
- Ensure port 8080 is not already in use

### Tests failing

- Confirm the application is running on http://localhost:8080
- Check `.env` has correct `API_BASE_URL`
- Review test logs in the terminal
- Check screenshots in `cypress/screenshots/` for visual failures

### Database connection errors

- Verify MySQL service is running (locally or remote host is accessible)
- Check database `qa_training` exists on the server
- Confirm `DB_URL`, `DB_USERNAME`, and `DB_PASSWORD` in `.env` are correct
- For local: Test connection with `mysql -u root -p -e "SHOW DATABASES;"`
- For remote: Check network connectivity and firewall rules
- Ensure special characters in password are not causing issues (wrap values in quotes in `.env` if needed)

## Contributing

1. Create a feature branch
2. Make your changes
3. Run tests to ensure nothing breaks
4. Submit a pull request

## License

ISC

Commit message:

feat: Implement database reset functionality for tests and update dependencies

README.md, after:

# qa-training-app-tests

A test automation framework built with Cypress and Cucumber for UI and API testing. This project includes the Spring Boot application JAR and automated tests.

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js 18+** installed
- **Java 17+** installed and available on PATH
- **MySQL Server** (local or remote) with database `qa_training`

## Project Setup

### 1. Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Team-Odin/qa-training-app-tests.git
cd qa-training-app-tests
```

### 2. Configure environment variables

Create your `.env` file from the example:

```bash
# Windows PowerShell
Copy-Item .env.example .env

# Mac/Linux
cp .env.example .env
```

Edit `.env` and update the values:

```env
DB_USERNAME="root"
DB_PASSWORD="YourActualPassword"
DB_URL="jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/qa_training?useSSL=false&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true"
API_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8080"
```

**For remote database:**

```env
DB_USERNAME="your_db_username"
DB_PASSWORD="your_db_password"
DB_URL="jdbc:mysql://remote-host:3306/qa_training?useSSL=false&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true"
API_BASE_URL="http://localhost:8080"
```

### 3. Install dependencies

```bash
npm install
```

### 4. Database setup

**For local database:**

Ensure MySQL is running and create the database if it doesn't exist:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS qa_training;
```

**For remote database:**

Ensure you have the correct host, port, username, and password. The database should already exist on the remote server.

The application will auto-create tables on first run using JPA.

## Running the Application

Start the Spring Boot application (without tests):

```bash
npm start
```

This will:

- Load database connection details (URL, username, password) from `.env`
- Connect to your configured MySQL database (local or remote)
- Start the application on port 8080
- Initialize the database schema automatically

**Access the application:**

- **UI Login**: http://localhost:8080/ui/login
- **Swagger API**: http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui/index.html
- **Health Check**: http://localhost:8080/actuator/health

To stop the application, press `Ctrl+C` in the terminal.

## Running Tests

Make sure the application is running before executing tests.

### Run all tests (headless):

```bash
npm test
```

### Open interactive test runner:

```bash
npm run open
```

### Run a specific test:

```bash
npx cypress run --spec cypress/e2e/healthcheck.feature
```

## Environment Variables

### Optional: Database reset/cleanup for tests

To ensure the database is clean after tests (and optionally before), Cypress can execute the SQL reset script at [sql/sample_plant_data_full.sql](sql/sample_plant_data_full.sql).

- `DB_RESET_ON_RUN` (default: auto-enabled for localhost DB) — reset DB on `before:run`
- `DB_RESET_AFTER_RUN` (default: auto-enabled for localhost DB) — reset DB on `after:run`
- `DB_RESET_SQL_FILE` (default: `sql/sample_plant_data_full.sql`) — custom SQL reset file
- `DB_RESET_ALLOW_NON_LOCAL` (default: `false`) — allow DB resets against non-local hosts (use with caution)

Th# Clean test artifacts:

```bash
npm run clean
```

## Project Structure

```
qa-training-app-tests/
├── bin/
│   └── qa-training-app.jar          # Spring Boot application
├── config/
│   └── application.properties       # Application configuration
├── cypress/
│   ├── e2e/                         # Test features and step definitions
│   ├── screenshots/                 # Test failure screenshots
│   └── support/                     # Cypress support files
├── .env                             # Environment variables (create from .env.example)
├── .env.example                     # Environment variables template
├── cypress.config.js                # Cypress configuration
├── package.json                     # NPM dependencies and scripts
├── run-app.js                       # Application launcher script
└── README.md                        # This file
```

## Available Scripts

| Command         | Description                            |
| --------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `npm start`     | Start the Spring Boot application      |
| `npm test`      | Run all Cypress tests in headless mode |
| `npm run open`  | Open Cypress interactive test runner   |
| `npm run clean` | Remove test screenshots and videos     |

## Troubleshooting

### Application won't start

- Verify Java is installed: `java --version`
- Check MySQL is running and accessible
- Verify database credentials in `.env`
- Ensure port 8080 is not already in use

### Tests failing

- Confirm the application is running on http://localhost:8080
- Check `.env` has correct `API_BASE_URL`
- Review test logs in the terminal
- Check screenshots in `cypress/screenshots/` for visual failures

### Database connection errors

- Verify MySQL service is running (locally or remote host is accessible)
- Check database `qa_training` exists on the server
- Confirm `DB_URL`, `DB_USERNAME`, and `DB_PASSWORD` in `.env` are correct
- For local: Test connection with `mysql -u root -p -e "SHOW DATABASES;"`
- For remote: Check network connectivity and firewall rules
- Ensure special characters in password are not causing issues (wrap values in quotes in `.env` if needed)

npx cypress run --env tags="@API/TC30"
